# SCP-079
**Name:** SCP-079
**Description:** "A sentient A.I. that has access to most of the facility's hardware and monitoring systems. With the facility under its control, beware the doors you lock tight for safety becoming the reason for your demise."
### Info:
**Spawn Location:** SCP-079's Containment Chamber in Heavy Containment Zone
**Abilities:** 
- Can alternate between cameras.
- Opening, closing and locking doors and gates.
- Activating Tesla Gates.
- Blacking out rooms.
- Operating elevators.
- Using loudspeakers located around the facility.
- Has access to a map of the facility with information on the amount of each class present.
- Can view SCP teammates on their map as red map markers.

**Auxiliary Power Regeneration:**
```
              Tier 1      Tier 2      Tier 3      Tier 4      Tier5
0 Generators  1.200 AP/s  2.500 AP/s  4.100 AP/s  6.800 AP/s  11.2 AP/s
1 Generators  1.440 AP/s  3.000 AP/s  4.920 AP/s  8.160 AP/s  13.44 AP/s
2 Generators  1.740 AP/s  3.625 AP/s  5.945 AP/s  9.860 AP/s  16.24 AP/s
3 Generators  2.460 AP/s  5.125 AP/s  8.405 AP/s  13.94 AP/s  22.96 AP/s
```
**Nickname/s:** PC, Computer

### Gameplay:
**Detailed Gameplay Description:**

SCP-079 has access to most of the facility's hardware and monitoring systems. With these systems under 079's control, it makes it one of the hardest SCPs and sometimes the hardest SCP to counter and defeat if controlled by an experienced player, additionally as well with a coordinated SCP team. 079 starts off weak with little Auxiliary Power (AP) generation per second (1.2AP/s) but with every Access Tier that 079 gains, its power generation increases as well. At the maximum tier (Access Tier 5), 079 generates a base speed of 11.2 AP/s, almost 10 times more than the amount per second from tier 1. This can be increased further by turning on generators around the facility but it comes at the cost of risking your recontainment.

Refer to the information below to get started.

**Light Containment Zone:**

Light Containment Zone is one of the best areas that SCP-079 can get experience to climb access tiers earlier into the game. Using the map feature (by pressing TAB), 079 can guide SCPs to SCP-914; a common place for many Class-D and Scientist Personnel to be in the early stages of a round.

Once at SCP-914, 079 can open the blast-door, letting in any SCPs to massacre everyone inside. It is a good choice to make sure to lock the door behind them as this will give you experience, which you need to increase your Access Tier. If done properly, 079 can boost his experience further into his higher tiers, which is all dependent on the amount of people in 914. In the case that SCP-173 is in the game, sending 173 to 914 is an effective strategy, as when 079 gets to Access Tier 2 it gets the ability to lockdown rooms; turning the lights off and locking all doors in that room for a brief period of time. This makes the room a killzone if 173 is present, which speeds up the process and guarantees the experience for all the kills.

Besides massacaring in 914, SCP-079 can scout the hallways of Light Containment to find any remaining people and guide any teammates nearby to them. 079 is also very useful when it comes to giving and denying access to both SCPs and human classes, as it can lock doors on unsuspecting people allowing SCPs to catch up with them. Along with this, 079 can also open restricted rooms like SCP-012, SCP-914 and the armoury for SCPs to enter as they cannot get access to the room (besides SCP-106).

**Heavy Containment Zone:**

Heavy Containment Zone provides with a new way of eliminating targets via the use of a Tesla Gate. At the cost of 50AP per trigger, 079 can instantly kill several people at once.

There also are 3 generators located around the Heavy Containment. If all 3 generators are activated, SCP-079 will be susceptible to recontainment. Whenever a generator is activated SCP-079 gets a message on screen saying that they are being attacked, and on the map you will be able to see the specific room highlighted in red. You can guide SCPs to that room if you wish to turn that generator off, because having generators acitve is a bad thing and progresses possible recontainment.

**Entrance Zone:**

Entrance Zone is a good place to ambush unsuspecting Nine-Tailed Fox and Chaos Insurgents as there are multiple cross intersections which make great hiding spots for SCPs, as humans will walk into the room while SCPs are hiden and 079 will be able to lockdown the room. This can allow SCPs such as SCP-173 to go on a murder spree and kill all the human classes without being seen.

**Surface Zone:**

SCP-079's interactions in Surface Zone are limited but are sometimes useful and can decide the win condition in particular cases. A high Access Tier 079 can go onto Surface Zone where an escapee is about to escape and lock the escape doors to prevent them from escaping. This can allow SCP teammates such as SCP-173 to hurry over and kill them to prevent a win to another faction or a stalemate.

**Approachable PlayStyles:**

**173 Synergy:**

Your aim here is to focus your attention and support on SCP-173 and their whereabouts at all times. 079 and 173 can single-handedly win the round by themselves if played right. You should start out in Light Containment Zone by locking doors on humans for SCP-173 or other SCPs to catch up and kill them. Once Access Tier 2 is unlocked, SCP-173 becomes an absolute killing machine where in locked-down rooms, 173 can simply massacre everyone in the room.

**Ambush:**

Your aim here is to trap unsuspecting targets and kill them with the help of SCPs to gain Access Tier 2 where you can start to lockdown rooms throughout the facility. This becomes really helpful when Nine-Tailed Fox or Chaos Insurgency spawn as you can send your SCP teammates to Entrance or Heavy Containment Zone where you can lockdown rooms.

**Support:**

Your aim here is to help and communicate with all your SCPs to trap and assist in killing players. This is usually considered the "regular playstyle" of 079.
